Added explanations and best practices to our Grafana docs (#277)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/next/07_monitor/01_grafana-metrics.md

   If this ever dips below 20%, we recommend increasing the replica count in the Elasticsearch-data helm chart. The helm changes will look something like the following:

   ```yaml
   elasticseatch:
     data:
       replicas: <number>
   ```

## Fluentd

This dashboard tracks the performance of Fluentd.

![Fluentd Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/Fluentd.png)

### Key Metrics

- **Buffer Size and Buffer Length:** These metrics track whether the Fluentd buffer is getting backed up, which might indicate an issue with writing logs to Elasticsearch. These metrics should ideally be hovering around zero.

## Creating Custom Dashboards

Because Astronomer's key metrics are distributed across several dashboards, you might want to create a custom dashboard that shows these metrics in one place. To create a custom dashboard:

> 1. In the Grafana sidebar menu, click the dashboard icon button and click **New**

Author: I created these steps based on other documentation online, as I don't personally have access to these functions on my own Grafana dashboard. Please double check these for consistency. 

In addition, any screen shots of the UI elements here would be super appreciated @ben-astro

2. Specify a visualization type and a title for your first panel.
3. In the metric's **Query** tab, open the data source dropdown menu and select Prometheus.
4. In the table below the data source dropdown menu. Specify the metric you want to visualize in the **Metrics** field.
4. On the top menu, click the **Add panel** icon to add another panel to the dashboard. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for this panel.
5. Click **Save** to finalize your changes.

As a starting point, we recommend creating a dashboard with the following metrics visualized as graphs for any organizations using the Kubernetes Executor or KubernetesPodOperator in an Airflow Deployment:

> - Node Disk Space Utilization

Author: Based on the Metrics interface, these metrics probably have specific query names we should mention, right? If there's anything else we should mention about how to configure these (time interval, mins/maxes, etc), let me know.

Reviewer: @jwitz I was able to log into our GCP Grafana and poke around a bit (see example of queries for Disk IO chart), but if we want to get more specific, we would need to set up time with Infra team and nail down everything (not sure that's needed - I think it's okay to point clients in a direction and have them come to us with questions; and the best solution anyway would be for us to push to implement some of these as pre-built dashboards in the platform). 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111010466-7bef5380-834b-11eb-86eb-6d6b4b10d6d5.png)

   If this ever dips below 20%, we recommend increasing the replica count in the Elasticsearch-data helm chart. The helm changes will look something like the following:

   ```yaml
   elasticseatch:
     data:
       replicas: <number>
   ```

## Fluentd

This dashboard tracks the performance of Fluentd.

![Fluentd Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/Fluentd.png)

### Key Metrics

- **Buffer Size and Buffer Length:** These metrics track whether the Fluentd buffer is getting backed up, which might indicate an issue with writing logs to Elasticsearch. These metrics should ideally be hovering around zero.

## Creating Custom Dashboards

Because Astronomer's key metrics are distributed across several dashboards, you might want to create a custom dashboard that shows these metrics in one place. To create a custom dashboard:

> 1. Ensure you're logged into Grafana. If you're on the Welcome page, you can log in via the **Sign In** button at the bottom of the sidebar menu. The default login credentials are `admin:admin`

Author: Do you have to have a specific role in Astronomer to have access to creating dashboards?

Reviewer: @jwitz Yes, you need to be Sysadmin in Astronomer Platform to have access to Grafana at all. When you're in Grafana itself, you can use the "login" function with admin/admin to get access to edit dashboards.

description: "Get a single-pane view into the health of your deployments with Grafana dashboards."
---

## Overview

Astronomer takes metrics generated by Statsd, as well as metrics generated from the KubeAPI by Prometheus and funnels them into Grafana dashboards where you can see the status of all Airflow deployments on your cluster.

Enterprise admins can access Astronomer's built in Grafana dashboards on `grafana.BASEDOMAIN`. All dashboards provide live, up-to-date information on the status of Airflow, from the Kubernetes level to the container level.

> Read the rest of this guide to learn about Astronomer's built in dashboards, as well as key metrics to track the overall health of your platform. 

Reviewer: @jwitz minor thing throughout the doc- sometimes we have "built in" dashboards and sometimes we have it "built-in" - thoughts on bringing those in sync?

Reviewer 2: Looks like you gottem all! Resolving

### Key metrics

**Deployment Status:** This metric appears in the **At a Glance** panel of the dashboard. It is a single value that indicates whether a Deployment is healthy or unhealthy.

A Deployment's status is determined by whether all pods in an Airflow deployment are running. If any pods aren't running as expected, the Deployment's status becomes "Unhealthy".

## Platform Overview
This will show the amount of persistent storage available to Prometheus, the registry, and ElasticSearch. It will also show a summary of all alerts that have fired.

![Astronomer Platform](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/platform_overview.png)

### Key metrics

- **1-day Airflow Task Volume:** This metric is the single best tool for monitoring Airflow task successes and failures. It can also be adjusted to better find specific data points.

    For instance, if you click **Edit** in the dropdown menu for the metric, you're able to update the **Metrics** query to show data for a specific time, status, or Deployment.

    ![1-day Airflow Task Volume Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/task-volume.png)

>     In the following example, the query has been rewritten in the format `sum(increase(airflow_ti_successes[<time>]))`, which changes the time interval that appears in the metric. We recommend looking at trends across longer intervals to clearly trends in task failures and successes.

Reviewer: @jwitz should be "...to clearly identify trends..."

Reviewer: also I think the result of switching the time interval is a great add here, so admins can see examples of longer trends: 
<img width="1634" alt="TrendsOverTime" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111007498-cf5da380-8343-11eb-8a21-fed051912e65.png">

>     You could also write this query as `sum by (deployment) (increase(airflow_ti_failures[<time-interval>]))` to view task volume across an entire Deployment, which is useful for monitoring potential system-wide problems.

Reviewer: @jwitz Do you think the other couple of screenshots would be useful here, in showing the effects of changing the time intervals, as well as changing the legend to be {{deployment}} instead of "failed"? The latter at least does a great job of showing the ability to see grouped sums across all different Airflow deployments. 
<img width="1635" alt="SumByDeployment" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111007339-70982a00-8343-11eb-9cc1-d99d0e99020a.png">
<img width="1634" alt="TrendsOverTime" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111007343-7261ed80-8343-11eb-8e9f-a947cdc27c48.png">

>     In addition, the eye icon on the metric has been deselected so that only task failures are shown:

Reviewer: @jwitz should be "...icon on the Successes metric...."

    ![Failures-Only Task Volume Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/failures-only.png)

> - **Database Connections:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how often your database is reached out to by the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Workers. The chart shows the sum total of connections coming from sqlpooling in all Airflow Deployments in your environment.

Reviewer: Hey @jwitz this section originally had a graphic, that was included in the same graphic as PGBouncerWaitingClients - if you think it'd be better to have a screenshot that only shows the DB connections, let me know if you want to get a fresh screenshot, or if you can snip the original (top left chart).
<img width="2035" alt="PGBouncer" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111007821-9245e100-8344-11eb-84ad-2ee72c62f14d.png">

- **PG Bouncer Waiting Clients:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how long specific actions are queued in a given Airflow Deployment before being executed. In healthy Deployments, this number should be very low.

    Extended periods of waiting can degrade performance and should be investigated for potential problems. For example, the Deployments associated with the red and pink spikes in the following graph might be experiencing issues with successfully executing tasks:

    ![PG Bouncer metrics](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/PGBouncer.png)

- **Unhealthy Schedulers:**  This metric is available in the **Airflow Health** panel, but Scheduler health can also be assessed for each individual Deployment in the Astronomer UI's **Metrics** tab. This metric gives you info on when and for how long individual Airflow deployment schedulers restarted.  

    Scheduler restarts could be normal, such as during an update, but if you see a single scheduler continue to restart or stay in an unhealthy state for a significant amount of time, it is worth investigating further.

>     For example, an organization would want to investigate the green Scheduler in the following screenshot:

Reviewer: @jwitz I think the screenshot didn't make it in here somehow... attaching here. 
<img width="985" alt="UnhealthySchedulers" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111007968-ec46a680-8344-11eb-8f0d-833cd6e3d85c.png">

- **DAG Parsing Time:** This metric is available in the **Airflow Health** panel. It measures how quickly the Scheduler is executing your DAGs, and it's an indicator for how well your Scheduler is scheduling jobs for execution.

>    Anything under 1 second is considered good, but the lower the measured time the better. Note that operator executions are not included in this metric, as those are typically scheduled for execution in Worker pods.

Reviewer: @jwitz ditto as above
<img width="981" alt="DAG_Parsing_Time" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111008235-7abb2800-8345-11eb-80a6-c6ca5c205231.png">

> - **Elasticsearch Available Disk Space:** Astronomer leverages the ELK stack for logging events; this is an important part of establishing observability for the platform as a whole. To do this successfully, Elasticsearch should always have >20% Available Disk Space which you can monitor from the “Platform Overview” dashboard, to ensure that logs are captured and persisted successfully.

Reviewer: @jwitz Need to correct this to be more specific (I had it wrong in original doc) - should be "Astronomer leverages Elasticsearch, Fluentd and Kibana for logging events;"

Also - did you intend to not include the screenshot here of Elasticsearch Available Disk Space? 
<img width="654" alt="Elasticseach_Avail_Space" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68117952/111008551-32503a00-8346-11eb-8e49-5d6313041eb6.png">

## Creating Custom Dashboards

Because Astronomer's key metrics are distributed across several dashboards, you might want to create a custom dashboard that shows these metrics in one place. To create a custom dashboard:

1. Ensure you're logged into Grafana. If you're on the Welcome page, you can log in via the **Sign In** button at the bottom of the sidebar menu. The default login credentials are `admin:admin`
2. In the Grafana sidebar menu, click the **+** icon and click **Create Dashboard**.

    ![Create Grafana Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/create-dashboard.png)

3. Specify a visualization type and a title for your first panel.
4. In the metric's **Query** tab, open the data source dropdown menu and select Prometheus.
5. In the table below the data source dropdown menu. Specify the metric you want to visualize in the **Metrics** field.
6. On the top menu, click the **Add panel** icon to add another panel to the dashboard. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for this panel.
7. Click **Save** to finalize your changes.

> As a starting point, we recommend creating a dashboard with the following metrics visualized as graphs for any organizations using the Kubernetes Executor or KubernetesPodOperator in an Airflow Deployment:

Reviewer: @jwitz Thoughts on moving this recommendation up to the "Kubernetes Pods" section of the document? It feels a bit out of place at the bottom, to me. And can just have a line like "See _here_ for more info on how to create custom Grafana Dashboards."

Author: Hm, if we end up having a release Dashboard for this then I don't want to draw too much attention to the "DIY" nature of this. I opted for including a note in the Overview section that states there are metrics not available in some released dashboards, which links to this section.

description: "Get a single-pane view into the health of your deployments with Grafana dashboards."
---

## Overview

> Astronomer takes metrics generated by Statsd, as well as metrics generated from the KubeAPI by Prometheus and funnels them into Grafana dashboards where you can see the status of all Airflow deployments on your cluster.

Reviewer 2: StatsD is proper name: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/statsd/

Enterprise admins can access Astronomer's built-in Grafana dashboards on `grafana.BASEDOMAIN`. All dashboards provide live, up-to-date information on the status of Airflow, from the Kubernetes level to the container level.

Read the rest of this guide to learn about Astronomer's built-in dashboards, as well as key metrics to track the overall health of your platform.

Additionally, you can customize your own dashboards to compile metrics that appear across separate release dashboards, or to compile metrics that don't yet appear in release dashboards. For more information, read [Creating Custom Dashboards](/docs/enterprise/next/monitor/grafana-metrics#creating-custom-dashboards).

## Astronomer UI Dashboard

Each of your Deployments has a built-in metrics dashboard in the Astronomer UI. To get there, open a Deployment and go to the **Metrics** tab:

![Astronomer Metrics Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/astro-metrics.png)

> This dashboard is most useful for tracking the performance of individual Airflow Deployments, whereas Grafana dashboards are more useful for tracking performance at the platform level.

Reviewer 2: More general thought: This doc is about Grafana, but this view is in the Astronomer UI - TBH I'm not sure that a section on the Astronomer UI dashboard is immediately relevant. Maybe we introduce it differently?

> This dashboard is most useful for tracking the performance of individual Airflow Deployments, whereas Grafana dashboards are more useful for tracking performance at the platform level.

Reviewer 2: @jwitz Fair enough. Honestly, ideally we have a doc that's applicable to both Cloud and Enterprise with info on the Metrics tab - because Cloud customers don't have access to Grafana. While we get that doc created (not priority), we can keep it in here for now

## Airflow State

Monitor all of your deployments from the Kubernetes level, including a birds-eye view of resource usage and system stress levels. When you spin up new deployments, they'll first show as "Unhealthy" in this view before going to "Healthy" when it is ready to be used.

![Astronomer State](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/airflow_state.png)

### Key Metrics

- **CPU Requests and Memory Requests:** These metrics appear in the **Quotas** panel of the dashboard. If you are executing your workflows in a cloud infrastructure, the typical paradigm is to pay for the resources you actually use, so it is important to monitor this usage and its associated costs.

    Due to the varying structure, tools, and pricing models of cloud provider solutions, the recommended values for these metrics will vary between organizations.

## Kubernetes Pods

This dashboard shows the status of the Kubernetes pods in your environment.

![Kubernetes Pod Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/kube-pod.png)

### Key Metrics

> **Pod Status:** This metric shows the status of your pods in your environment, which is the same value you get by running `$ kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace>`. If desired, you can add a panel to the dashboard to easily see states for all pods at once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pod Status:** This metric shows the status of a single pod within your cluster, and displays one of 5 states [as defined by Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#) - `Pending`, `Running`, Succeeded`, `Failed`, or `Unknown`. The value for this metric is equivalent to the output of`$ kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace>`. If you're interested in seeing the status of multiple pods at once, you're free to add a panel to this dashboard.
```

Reviewer 2: The original sentence here didn't make much sense imo

## Airflow Deployment Overview

> Use this Dashboard to drill down to each individual Deployment on your platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard displays an important set of resource and health-based metrics at the namespace level. It is most similar to the one displayed in the  **Metrics** of the Astronomer UI for a single Airflow Deployment.
```

![Astronomer Deployments](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/airflow_deployment_overview.png)

> ### Key metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Key Metrics
```

Standardize capital "M" (or not)

> **Deployment Status:** This metric appears in the **At a Glance** panel of the dashboard. It is a single value that indicates whether a Deployment is healthy or unhealthy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion"
**Deployment Status:** This metric indicates whether the selected Deployment is "Healthy" or "Unhealthy", as determined by the state of the pods running within it.
```

> A Deployment's status is determined by whether all pods in an Airflow deployment are running. If any pods aren't running as expected, the Deployment's status becomes "Unhealthy".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any pod within an Airflow Deployment's namespace is _not_ in a `Running` state, the Deployment is considered "Unhealthy".
```

## Platform Overview

> This will show the amount of persistent storage available to Prometheus, the registry, and ElasticSearch. It will also show a summary of all alerts that have fired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will show the amount of persistent storage available to Prometheus, the platform's Docker registry, and Elasticsearch. It will also show a summary of all alerts that have fired.
```

If you're interested in customizing the pre-built dashboards to create other views or compile additional metrics, skip to [Creating Custom Dashboards](/docs/enterprise/next/monitor/grafana-metrics#creating-custom-dashboards).

## Access Grafana

By default, users with [System Admin permissions](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.23/manage-astronomer/manage-platform-users#system-roles) can access Astronomer's built-in Grafana dashboards. To access Grafana dashboards from the Astronomer UI:

1. As an Astronomer Admin user, open Grafana from the Astronomer UI.

    ![Create Grafana Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/ui-access.png)

2. Log in to Grafana. If you're on the Welcome page, you can log in via the **Sign In** button at the bottom of the sidebar menu. The default login credentials are `admin:admin`.

    ![Login button](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/grafana-signin.png)

3. Click the search button to access all published dashboards.

    ![Grafana search button](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/search-button.png)

> 

Author: Good call! Just reworded it slightly.

### Access dashboards for specific Airflow Deployments

By default, most dashboards show metrics for all of your Airflow Deployments. To see metrics for a specific Deployment:

1. In the Astronomer UI, click on a Workspace to see a list of all Deployments in that Workspace.

    ![Open Workspace in the Astronomer UI](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/click-workspace.png)

2. The release name for a Deployment is listed under the Deployment's proper name. Make note of the release names for each Deployment you want to monitor.  

    ![Release name location](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/release-name.png)

> 3. In Grafana, open a dashboard. Click the menu under the Deployment's name to see a list of all possible release names. Depending on which dashboard you're using, the name of this menu is either **Deployment** or **Release Name**.

Author: The items that appear in the menu are release names, so I don't want to call them Deployments.

    ![Release name menu in Grafana](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/select-release-name.png)

> 4. Select one or multiple release names to monitor in the dashboard.

Author: But the 3-word release name is what they're selecting in the menu. We should be clear that they should be selecting what they recorded in step 2, which in this case is not a Deployment but rather the release name itself.

Read the rest of this guide to learn about Astronomer's built-in dashboards, as well as key metrics for tracking the overall health of your platform.

## Platform Overview

This dashboard shows the amount of persistent storage available to Prometheus, the platform's Docker registry, and Elasticsearch across your entire platform. Use this dashboard to track system-wide behaviors and issues.

![Astronomer Platform](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/platform_overview.png)

### Key metrics

> - **1-day Airflow Task Volume:** This metric is the single best tool for monitoring Airflow task successes and failures. It can also be adjusted to better find specific data points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **1-day Airflow Task Volume:** This metric is the single best tool for monitoring Airflow task successes and failures, as well growth in volume. It can also be adjusted to better find specific data points.
```

Not totally sure on what`it can be adjusted to better find specific data points` means 👀

Author: Oof yeah, that's probably left over from the google doc.

> - **1-day Airflow Task Volume:** This metric is the single best tool for monitoring Airflow task successes and failures. It can also be adjusted to better find specific data points.

Author: I don't think our Markdown pipeline likes it when we jump from h2's to h4's.

> - **1-day Airflow Task Volume:** This metric is the single best tool for monitoring Airflow task successes and failures. It can also be adjusted to better find specific data points.

Reviewer 2: Made general comment on this in my review, but I'm suggesting to keep `### Key Metrics` as an H3, and then just have the actual key metrics under it as H4's instead of bolded bullet points

    For instance, if you click **Edit** in the dropdown menu for the metric, you're able to update the **Metrics** query to show data for a specific time, status, or Deployment.

    ![1-day Airflow Task Volume Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/task-volume.png)

>     In the following example, the query has been rewritten in the format `sum(increase(airflow_ti_successes[<time>]))`, which changes the time interval that appears in the metric. We recommend looking at trends across longer intervals to clearly identify trends in task failures and successes:

Author: Isn't "trends" the most appropriate word here? Patterns has an implication of repetition, whereas trends implies a sort of progression or timeline.

    ![Task Volume Metric with Modified Time Interval](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/time-interval.png)

    In addition, the eye icon on the metric can be deselected so that only task failures are shown:

    ![Failures-Only Task Volume Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/failures-only.png)

    You could also write this query as `sum by (deployment) (increase(airflow_ti_failures[<time-interval>]))` to view task volume across an entire Deployment, which is useful for monitoring potential system-wide problems:

    ![Metric Across Multiple Deployments](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/multiple-deployments.png)

> - **Database Connections:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how often your database is reached out to by the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Workers. The chart shows the sum total of connections coming from sqlpooling in all Airflow Deployments in your environment:

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify that this your Platform Database, not the Metadata DB?

    ![Database Connections Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/db-connections.png)

>     This metric is particularly relevant to organizations with more than 20 Airflow Deployments. For optimal performance, this should stay under 300 less than the `max_connections` for your postgresSQL database.  

Author: Spent a little too long on this, but I think I got it.

- **PG Bouncer Waiting Clients:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how long specific actions are queued in a given Airflow Deployment before being executed. In healthy Deployments, this number should be very low.

    Extended periods of waiting can degrade performance and should be investigated for potential problems. For example, the Deployments associated with the red and pink spikes in the following graph might be experiencing issues with successfully executing tasks:

    ![PG Bouncer metrics](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/PGBouncer.png)

> - **Unhealthy Schedulers:**  This metric is available in the **Airflow Health** panel, but Scheduler health can also be assessed for each individual Deployment in the Astronomer UI's **Metrics** tab. This metric gives you info on when and for how long individual Airflow deployment schedulers restarted.  

Author: Reworded slightly.

>     Scheduler restarts could be normal, such as during an update, but if you see a single scheduler continue to restart or stay in an unhealthy state for a significant amount of time, it is worth investigating further.

Reviewer 2: The y-axis here is semi confusing - maybe clarify that it's sort of ultimately tracking the "# of schedulers" that are unhealthy? I.e. If 6 Schedulers are unhealthy, a user would see them stacked up to `6` in the y-axis?

Author: I added a bunch of info to this metric, including what constitutes "Unhealthy" based on our Airflow alerts.

Reviewer 2: Awesome

>     Scheduler restarts could be normal, such as during an update, but if you see a single scheduler continue to restart or stay in an unhealthy state for a significant amount of time, it is worth investigating further.

Author: Do you mean that we also recommend that for Enterprise? Tried rewording to make it more clear when this should be looked into.

>     Scheduler restarts could be normal, such as during an update, but if you see a single scheduler continue to restart or stay in an unhealthy state for a significant amount of time, it is worth investigating further.

Reviewer 2: Made sep comment

    For example, an organization would want to investigate the green Scheduler in the following screenshot:

    ![Unhealthy Schedulers](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/unhealthy-shcedulers.png)

- **DAG Parsing Time:** This metric is available in the **Airflow Health** panel. It measures how quickly the Scheduler is executing your DAGs, and it's an indicator for how well your Scheduler is scheduling jobs for execution:

    ![Parsing Time Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/parsing-time.png)

   Anything under 1 second is considered good, but the lower the measured time the better. Note that operator executions are not included in this metric, as those are typically scheduled for execution in Worker pods.

> - **Elasticsearch Available Disk Space:** Astronomer utilizes the ELK stack for logging events; this is an important part of establishing observability for the platform as a whole. To do this successfully, Elasticsearch should always have >20% Available Disk Space. You can monitor this from the “Platform Overview” dashboard to ensure that logs have been successfully captured and persisted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Elasticsearch Available Disk Space:** Astronomer utilizes the [ELK stack](https://www.elastic.co/what-is/elk-stack) to power logging, an important part of establishing observability for the platform as a whole. To function successfully, Elasticsearch should always have >20% Available Disk Space. You can monitor this from the “Platform Overview” dashboard to ensure that both task and component logs have been successfully captured and persisted:
```

   ![Available Disk Space](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/available-disk-space.png)

>    If this ever dips below 20%, we recommend increasing the replica count in the Elasticsearch-data helm chart. The helm changes will look something like the following:

Reviewer 2: link 2 helm chart?

   ```yaml
   elasticsearch:
     data:
       replicas: <number>
   ```

## Airflow State

> This dashboard includes a high level view of resource usage and system stress levels. Use this dashboard to monitor all Airflow Deployments running within your Kubernetes cluster in a single view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard includes a high-level view of resource usage and system stress levels. Use this dashboard to monitor all Airflow Deployments running within your Kubernetes cluster in a single view.
```

![Astronomer State](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/airflow_state.png)

### Key metrics

- **CPU Requests and Memory Requests:** These metrics appear in the **Quotas** panel of the dashboard. Most organizations run Astronomer within a cloud environment and pay for resource usage, so it is important to monitor this dashboard and its associated costs. Due to the varying structure, tools, and pricing models of cloud provider solutions, the recommended values for these metrics will vary between organizations.

## Kubernetes Pods

This dashboard shows several detailed metrics for each Kubernetes pod in your cluster. If you filter by namespace for a particular Airflow Deployment, you can view a dedicated set of metrics for any pod within that namespace.

![Kubernetes Pod Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/kube-pod.png)

### Key metrics

> **Pod Status:** This metric shows the status of a single pod within your cluster, and displays one of 5 states [as defined by Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#) - `Pending`, `Running`, `Succeeded`, `Failed`, or `Unknown`. The value for this metric is equivalent to the output of ` kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace>`. If you're interested in seeing the status of multiple pods at once, you're free to add a panel to this dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pod Status:** This metric shows the status of a single pod within your cluster, and displays one of 5 states [as defined by Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#) - `Pending`, `Running`, `Succeeded`, `Failed`, or `Unknown`. The value for this metric is equivalent to the output of `kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace>`. If you're interested in seeing the status of multiple pods at once, you're free to add a panel to this dashboard.
```

## Airflow Deployment Overview

This dashboard shows a set of resource and health-based metrics for individual Deployments. It is most similar to the one displayed in the **Metrics** tab of the Astronomer UI.

![Astronomer Deployments](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/ee/airflow_deployment_overview.png)

### Key metrics

**Deployment Status:** This metric indicates whether the selected Deployment is "Healthy" or "Unhealthy", as determined by the state of the pods running within it.

If any pod within an Airflow Deployment's namespace is not in a `Running` state, the Deployment is considered "Unhealthy".

## Fluentd

> This dashboard tracks the performance of Fluentd, which is the primary logging tool for Astronomer. You can use the metrics in this dashboard to track the overall status of logs being emitted from the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard tracks the performance of Fluentd, which writes logs to Elasticsearch. You can use the metrics in this dashboard to track the overall status of logs being emitted from the service.
```

"Primary logging tool" feels confusingly general with our description of Elasticsearch/the ELK stack above

![Fluentd Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/Fluentd.png)

### Key metrics

- **Buffer Size and Buffer Length:** These metrics track whether the Fluentd buffer is backed up, which might indicate an issue with writing logs to Elasticsearch. These metrics should ideally be hovering around zero.

## Astronomer UI Metrics Dashboard

> In addition to their dashboards in Grafana, each of your Deployments has a built-in metrics dashboard in the Astronomer UI. To get there, open a Deployment and go to the **Metrics** tab:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to dashboards in Grafana, each of your Deployments has a built-in metrics dashboard in the Astronomer UI that's accessible to users who have access to that Deployment. To get there, open a Deployment and go to the **Metrics** tab:
```

![Astronomer Metrics Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/astro-metrics.png)

This dashboard is most useful for tracking the performance and resource usage of an individual Airflow Deployment, whereas Grafana is most useful for tracking performance at the platform level and across multiple Airflow Deployments.

### Key metrics

- **Usage Quotas**: These metrics show the percentage of maximum pods, CPU, and memory an Airflow Deployment is using within its Kubernetes namespace. The upper limit of each metric is pulled from your platform-level configurations for resource quotas.

    If you're using the Local or Celery Executors, these metrics should each show around 50% usage at all times.

    If you're using the Kubernetes Executor or the KubernetesPodOperator in your DAGs, these metrics should fluctuate based on the number of tasks you're running at any given time. If any of these numbers reaches its maximum, we recommend allocating more computing power by adjusting the **Extra Capacity** slider in the **Settings** tab of your Airflow Deployment.

> ## Creating Custom Dashboards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create Custom Grafana Dashboards
```

Maybe specify since we have references Astro UI dashboards here?

> Because Astronomer's key metrics are distributed across several dashboards, you might want to create a custom dashboard that shows these metrics in one place. To create a custom dashboard:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Astronomer's pre-built dashboards in Grafana don't fit the needs of your team, you might want to create custom dashboards that compile the metrics you find important. To create a custom dashboard:
```

Author: 1st half of the suggestion seems a little negative, so I kept the original wording for that part.

Reviewer 2: Good call

> 1. As an Astronomer Admin user, open Grafana from the Astronomer UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. As a System Admin, open Grafana from the Astronomer UI.
```

2. Log in to Grafana. If you're on the Welcome page, you can log in via the **Sign In** button at the bottom of the sidebar menu. The default login credentials are `admin:admin`

3. In the Grafana sidebar menu, click the **+** icon and click **Create Dashboard**.

4. Specify a visualization type and title for your first panel.

5. In the metric's **Query** tab, open the data source dropdown menu and select Prometheus.

> 6. In the table below the data source dropdown menu. Specify the metric you want to visualize in the **Metrics** field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In the table below the data source dropdown menu, specify the metric you want to visualize in the **Metrics** field.
```

    ![Task Volume Metric with Modified Time Interval](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/time-interval.png)

    In addition, the eye icon on the metric can be deselected so that only task failures are shown:

    ![Failures-Only Task Volume Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/failures-only.png)

    You could also write this query as `sum by (deployment) (increase(airflow_ti_failures[<time-interval>]))` to view task volume across an entire Deployment, which is useful for monitoring potential system-wide problems:

    ![Metric Across Multiple Deployments](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/multiple-deployments.png)

- **Database Connections:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how often your database is reached out to by the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Workers. The chart shows the sum total of connections coming from sqlpooling in all Airflow Deployments in your environment:

    ![Database Connections Metric](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/db-connections.png)

>     This metric is particularly relevant to organizations with more than 20 Airflow Deployments. For optimal postgreSQL database performance, you should keep this number below `max_connections - 300`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This metric is particularly relevant to organizations with more than 20 Airflow Deployments. For optimal database performance, you should keep this number below `max_connections - 300`.
```

I'd prob just scratch the postgres part? 🤷‍♀️

- **PG Bouncer Waiting Clients:** This metric can be found in the **Database** panel. It measures how long specific actions are queued in a given Airflow Deployment before being executed. In healthy Deployments, this number should be very low.

    Extended periods of waiting can degrade performance and should be investigated for potential problems. For example, the Deployments associated with the red and pink spikes in the following graph might be experiencing issues with successfully executing tasks:

    ![PG Bouncer metrics](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/grafana/PGBouncer.png)

> - **Unhealthy Schedulers:**  This metric shows the number of unhealthy Schedulers in a given Deployment. It's available in the **Airflow Health** panel, but Scheduler health can also be assessed for each individual Deployment in the Astronomer UI's **Metrics** tab. A Scheduler is considered "Unhealthy" if it has not emitted a heartbeat for over 1 minute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Unhealthy Schedulers:**  This metric shows the number of unhealthy Schedulers in a given Deployment. It's available in the **Airflow Health** panel, but Scheduler health can also be assessed for each individual Deployment in the **Metrics** tab of the Astronomer UI. A Scheduler is considered "Unhealthy" if it has not emitted a heartbeat for over 1 minute.
```
